
1. > A GUI is a user interface that allows its users to interact with computers by means of icons and pointing devices, 
    like mouses and fingers.
   > A CLI is a text only interface through which users interact with computers by typing text instructions in a console (or terminal),
     using specific syntax.
   > Terminals emulated within GUIs,are terminal emulators (also terminal window or just terminal).
   > Some of the most popular shells are Bash, Z shell, KornShell, Command Prompt and Windows PowerShell
   
2. > command prompt or prompt-it prompts the user to insert a command. 
     The command prompt is customizable and can vary in appearance, depending on the settings.
   > The screen area to the right of the prompt is called a command line and it is where we, as users, enter commands.
   > An option is a string of symbols that modifies the behavior of the command and it always starts with a dash (-). 
     Other possible names for this parameter are flag and switch
   > An argument — or operand — is an object upon which the command acts.
     The utility (also command or program) is the first item in the instruction.
   > options alters the behavior of commands.
   > An option is said to be a long option if it starts with --, otherwise it is a short option.
   > advantage of long options is that they usually are more descriptive, which makes them:
      Easier to remember
      Easy to guess what they do
  > One or more options without option-arguments, followed by at most one option that takes an option-argument,
    should be accepted when grouped behind one - delimiter. ( i.e diff -qy file1 file2)

3. Commands
   > diff -y file1 file2: outputs difference between two files
   > diff -q file1 file2 only reports that the files are different or not instead of differences
   > history : outpust used command history
   > clear: clears console
   > exit :closes terminal

4. > History expansion allows us to very quickly reference lines in the command history by the number to the left of the command.
     (!command_no)
    