
1. Introduction
  > estimating probabilities is an extremely powerful technique that can enable us to build non-trivial applications, including:
    Image recognition systems (used for self-driving cars, medical diagnosis, etc.)
    Spam filters for inboxes
    Statistical hypothesis tests
  > Throughout this course, we'll learn:
    How to estimate probabilities theoretically and empirically.
   What are the fundamental rules of probability.
   Counting techniques — tree diagrams, the rule of product, permutations, and combinations.

2. The Empirical Probabilitiy
   > Whenever we can't predict outcomes with certainty, we're dealing with a random experiment.
   > a random experiment is any process for which we can't predict outcomes with certainty.
   > Although we can't predict the outcome of a random experiment, we can at least estimate the probability (the chances) associated 
     with its outcomes.
   > Generally, for any event E (like a coin landing heads up), we can find its probability by using the following formula:
     P(E)= no of times event E happened / total no of events
   > When we calculate the probability of an event by performing an experiment one or more times, 
     we calculate the experimental — or empirical probability — of the event.
   

3. Probability as Relative Frequency
   > the empirical probability of an event is nothing but the relative frequency (proportion or percentage) of that event
     with respect to the total number of times the experiment was performed.
   > Using percentages gives us a more intuitive understanding of what a probability value really is.
   > eg- p= 56 heads/ 100 tosses , 0.56 represents proportion of heads from total 100 tosses

4.  Repeating  an Experiment
   > Keep experimenting and increase experiment no

5. The true probability value
   > Generally, the probability of an event (a coin landing heads up, getting a 5 when we roll a die, etc.) approaches the true probability value
     as the number of trials of the random experiment (a coin toss, the rolling of a die, etc.) increases without bound.
   

6. The Theoretical Probability
   > Properly calculating empirical probabilities requires to perform a random experiment many times, which may not always be feasible in practice
   > easier way to estimate probabilities is to start with the assumption that the outcomes of a random experiment have equal chances of occurring.
     This allows us to use the following formula to calculate the probability of an event E: 
      P(E)=1/Total no of possible outcomes
   > we can't use this formula to compute theoretical probabilities for events that include more than one outcome. 
   > When we calculate the probability of an event under the assumption that the outcomes have equal chances of occurring, 
     we say that we're calculating the theoretical probability of an event.
   

7. Events vs outcomes
   > An outcome is any result that a random experiment may terminate in. 
   >  An outcome is a possible result of a random experiment, while an event can include more than one outcome.
   > The event that we'll get an odd number when we roll a six-sided die — this event includes the outcomes 1, 3, and 5.
   > P(E): no of successful events/total no of possible outcomes
   > The "number of successful outcomes" part represents the number of outcomes included in the event E,
     and "total number of possible outcomes" is the number of possible outcomes that the random experiment associated with the event E could
     terminate in.

8. A Biased Die
   > When assumption of equally likely outcomes is violated — in case of biased die having 3 sides of 6, 6 has more chances of occurring than the other outcomes.
     Above formula of no of successful events/total possible outcomes fails

