
1. Complex probability problems
  > What is the probability that it takes three flips or more for a coin to land heads up? (opposite events)
    What is the probability of a coin landing heads up 18 times in a row? (multiplication rule)
    What is the probability of getting at least one 6 in four throws of a single six-sided die?
    What is the probability of getting at least one double-six
  > In this mission, we're going to develop new techniques that will help us answer all five questions — and many others.


2. Opposite Events
  > we learned the probability of any event ranges between 0 and 1:
    a coin lands on something other than head and tail - impossible (0)
    a coin lands on tail                               - probabal   (0.5)
    a coind lands on tail oro head                     - certain    (1)
  > Now consider the two events below, which we're going to call "B" and "non-B":
    Getting a 2 when rolling a fair six-sided die (event B)
    Not getting a 2 when rolling a fair six-sided die (event non-B)
  > When we throw the die, it's certain we'll get either a 2 (B) or other number (non-B). This means the event "B or non-B" (B ? non-B) is
    certain, and it has a probability of 1.
  > in set notation we write "B or non-B" as B ? non-B. Note that B and non-B are also mutually exclusive events, 
    which means they can't happen simultaneously
  > for any random experiment either event "E" or "non-E" will happen, so the event "E or non-E" is certain and has a probability of 1
  > p(E U non-E)=p(E) + p(non-E)=1
  > p(E)= 1 - p(non-E)

3.  Set complements
   > In set theory, the opposite of a set is called its complement
   > For instance, the opposite of set B is BC, where the "C" in the superscript stands for "complement."
       b={2},where bc={1,3,4,5,6} is complement of event b

4. The Multiplication rule
   > Finding P(HH) means finding the probability that the coin lands heads up on the first flip (we'll call this event H1), 
     and the coin lands heads up on the second flip (we'll call this event H2). So we want to find P(H1 and H2), or, using set notation,
     P(H1 n H2).
   > To find P(H1 n H2), we can use a new rule called the multiplication rule of probability and multiply P(H1) by P(H2)
   >  In more general terms, the multiplication rule says that for two events E1 and E2, the probability that
     both event E1 and E2 happen can be found by multiplying the probability of E1 by the probability of E2

5. Independent Events
   > Events that don't influence each other's probability are called independent events.
   > The multiplication rule we learned only works for independent events.   
   > So far, we've used the multiplication rule to calculate the probability of two independent events. The rule, however, 
     works for any number of events — what we need to do is multiply together the probability of all the events

6. Combining formulas
   > We can combine multiplication rule ,opposite event method to calculate probability of problems 
      What is the probability of getting at least one 6 in four throws of a single six-sided die?
      What is the probability of getting at least one double-six in 24 throws of two six-sided dice 
      (the two dice are thrown simultaneously)?

7. Sampling with and without replacement
   > When we replace the cards after drawing, we say that we're sampling with replacement. 
     When we don't put the cards back, we're sampling without replacement.
 
 



5. 