
1. Introduction 
  > Summarize the distribution of a variable with a single value. we'll see that we can summarize it using the mean,
    the weighted mean, the median, or the mode.
  > summarize the distribution below with a single value that is representative of the distribution as a whole. (using mean)
    [1,4,7,8,10,0] mean is 5. Here 5 represents whole distribution of variable
  > Although the distance for each individual value varies, the sum of the distances of the values that are below the mean is equal 
   to the sum of the distances of the values that are above the mean: 

2. The Mean as a Balance Point
   > In some cases, the mean will be equivalent to the center of the distribution's range, 
     but this doesn't hold true for all distributions.
   > We should think of the mean as being the value located at that particular point in the distribution where the total distance of the 
     values below the mean is the same as the total distance of the values that are above the mean. 

3. Defining the Mean Algebraically
   > By convention, the mean of a population is denoted with the Greek letter  (pronounced "mew")
     (x1+x2+x3.....+xn)/N where N is number of population
   > When we compute the mean for a sample, we need to use a slightly different notation to indicate that we're computing the mean for a sample and not for a population. Instead of ,
     we denote the sample mean using  (pronounced "x-bar"), and we use n  instead of N to denote the number of values in the sample.
   
4. Variability around population mean
   > Generally, as we increase the sample size, there will be less and less variability around the population mean. If there's less variability,
     there are less chances to get a poor estimate for the population mean — the worst sample means we can get are fairly 
      close to the population mean, which is good.

5. Sample Mean as an Unbiased Estimator
   > So on average the sample mean is equal to the population mean. This is true for the distribution above
     and for any other distribution of real numbers.
   > When a statistic is on average equal to the parameter it estimates, we call that statistic an unbiased estimator. 
     In our case, the sample mean is an unbiased estimator for the population mean .
   