
1. Introduction
   > Weighted mean when mean have diferent weights
   
2. Median for Open-ended distributions
   > The upper boundary ("10 or more") is thus open, and for this reason we say that the TotRms AbvGrd variable has an open-ended distribution.
     mean calculation is not possible in such cases
   > calculate median by arranging in ascending or descending order
  
3. Distribution with Even Number of Values
   > When a distribution has an even number of values, it's not clear which is the middle one.
   > The workaround is to take the two middle values and compute their mean. 
   > In statistics, the term "average" refers to the most representative value of a distribution.
   >  Although it's common to use "average" and "mean" interchangeably, "average" is not restricted to refer only to the mean. 
      Depending on the context, it can also refer to the median or the mode.
   

4. Median as a Resistant Statistic
   > When we compute the mean, we account equally for each value in the distribution — we sum up 
     all the values in the distribution and then divide the total by the number of values we added. When we compute the median, however, 
     we don't consider equally each value in the distribution.In fact, we only consider the middle value (or the middle two values).
   > This property makes the median more resistant to changes in the data compared to the mean.
   > This property makes the median ideal for finding reasonable averages for distributions containing outliers. 
   > When variables are numerical, you can use the Series.median() method and the Series.mean() method.
   

5. The Median for Ordinal Scales
   > It can be argued thus that the numerical values of an ordinal variable are not subject to meaningful arithmetical operations. 
    But computing the mean involves meaningful arithmetical operations, so it's not theoretically sound to use the mean for ordinal variables.
   

6. Sensitivity to changes
   > Unlike the median, the mean is sensitive to small changes in the data
   > It should be clear by now that whether we should use the mean for ordinal data is contentious. In practice, 
    you should be flexible and make your choice on a case by case basis. Also, you are not constrained to choose one metric or
    the other — you can choose both the mean and median to describe a distribution.
